So let's learn a bit more about regular expressions.
For that I just reloaded this page here and now again
let's create a new regular expression and store it in a regex constant.
Again you can create it with new regexp and pass the expression pattern as a string to the constructor
or use this literal notation with two forward backslash.
Now a regular expression as learned describes a pattern which you try to find in some text in a string.
A simple pattern could be hello,
so just a couple of characters,
normal characters.
This regular expression would yield true
if we test any string which includes hello,
so if we test just hello, we get true, we also get true if we say hi there, hello or if we have
hello anywhere in there.
So if hello is part of the string, this yields true because we're just checking if this combination
of characters is part of the string we're validating.
Now we don't return true
if I try to validate hello with a capital H because regular expressions are case sensitive.
So this here does not yield true because we're checking for hello like this, not for a lowercase or
uppercase H,
however you could do that,
you could also create this pattern in a more flexible way. You could say I'm looking for hello
but I don't care where we start with an uppercase or a lowercase h. You would express this by wrapping
this into parentheses, then adding a pipe symbol and then an uppercase H and this means we want
to have a word which ends with ello and starts with either a lowercase or an uppercase H
and of course we should store it in a new constant here to not reuse that name and now if I use regex2,
I can test hello
and you see we get true, also if it's somewhere in that string
but I also get true if Hello starts with an uppercase h. We by the way don't get true if we just have
ello,
so the H really is needed, we just don't care about its casing.
So this would be one example of how we can alter this to be a bit more complex than just a straightforward
word. There also are other modifiers, you can also work with wild cards, so after reloading this page here
again, I'll create a new regular expression and let's say I want to check for ello but I don't care about
the first character. For that you can use a dot here and this signals
well you want to end with ello but you don't really care about the starting character of the word,
so it has to be a five character word but the starting character is not relevant to you.
So then if I test hello here, I get true,
if I on the other hand test just ello, I get false. On the other hand, I can use jello like this and I would
also get true or something like this,
this also would yield true but I have to have a starting character and this is then a wild card.
By the way you can also escape in regular expressions, you might remember our email regular expression,
email regex.
There
I used s+@s+ and then I used backslash dot in here,
this is how we say I'm not looking for any character but really for the dot character, since the dot
in a regular expression has a special meaning, it's that wild card you just learned about, you escape it
with a backward slash, just as you can escape some characters in a normal string. Same by the way here
with s+, I escape this s here so that I don't mean the regular uppercase s character but this now
basically has a special meaning, in regular expressions, it means any word so to say. Now
there is way more you can do there
and as I mentioned in the last lecture, attached you find some links that allow you to dive deeper if
you want to.
I however also want to be very honest with you,
learning regular expressions and writing very complex expressions on your own will take some time to
master and you might not need it that often,
therefore a lot of people, myself included if I'm honest, often look up certain patterns, especially if
I'm not sure if the pattern I came up with is the best one.
So for example if you want to validate some email address in Javascript, you can Google for email js
regex,
something like this or Javascript regex email, anything like that and you'll find some discussions on
Stack Overflow typically where you find some ideas.
So here for example, you find very complex patterns that match a lot of different email addresses or
you find the more simple pattern
I showed you, basically a combination of this one here and this one here and this is of course not just
possible for emails,
if you want to validate a URL, so if you want to find out if a string holds a URL, you can google
for a URL js regex and you would find this discussion with some ideas on how you can validate
a URL.
There you see a lot of different rules and syntax features of regular expressions in action
and again with the attached resources, you can learn more about that
but if you just need to find a certain regular expression to validate a certain pattern,
this is how you can find it and how you can work with it.
It's also worth noting that you can not just call test there, you also have an exec method on a regular
expression.
If you pass a string to that and keep in mind stored in regex is this regular expression,
so if you pass a string to this, let's say jello which matches my regular expression, then you get back
an array with some information about the pattern and where it matched in the string. You get the matching
string back but you also see where this pattern started in the string and here since the entire string
matches my pattern, we start at index zero.
If I would try to match this on let's say hi jello,
then you would see we got index four because the pattern we found in there which was jello that matched
our regular expression pattern, that started at index 4, index 0, index 1, index 2, index 3 and then index
4,
so the fifth character was the first character of the matching pattern. So you also got exec if you
need to find where in a string your pattern is matched.
You also can do it the other way around,
if you have hi jello here, then you can also call match on this and pass a regular expression to that
and you get basically the same output, as you see matching pattern and where it started but you call this
on a string instead of on the regular expression,
it's of course up to you which one you prefer.
And that's it for now about regular expressions,
definitely an interesting and sometimes important topic.
You've got the basics here, searching for patterns is a good idea and something you will do in practice
a lot
and if you want to learn more, check out the attached resources of course.